[ADD] Accounting: Avalara Included Setup (#17928)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/taxes/avatax/avalara_included.rst

+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| Odoo Technical Support   |          ✅         |            ✅           |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| Annual Transaction Limit |        5,000        |    Unlimited Custom     |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| 1st tier Support by      |         Odoo        |         Avalara         |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| Avalara Direct Support   |       Limited       |            ✅           |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| Return Prep & Filing     |    ⚠️ Add-on only   |      ⚠️ Add-on only     |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| Tax Remittance           |    ⚠️ Add-on only   |      ⚠️ Add-on only     |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+

.. important::
   Businesses that exceed 5,000 transactions annually must transition to an *Avalara Direct* plan to
   ensure uninterrupted service at higher transaction volumes.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. _accounting/avalara_included/iap-credits:

In-App purchase credits
-----------------------

Avalara Included requires users to purchase credits on the `Odoo IAP page
<https://iap.odoo.com/iap/in-app-services/865>`_.

How do credits work?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One credit is consumed every time an invoice or credit note is posted with an *Avatax* fiscal
position. Select the package that best fits the demand, based on the estimated transactions.

```

Configuration
=============

*Avalara Included* is available both for Odoo users who do not yet have an Avalara account and for
Odoo users with an existing Avalara account that they would like to migrate to the *Avalara

> Included* plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Avalara Included* is available both for Odoo users who do not yet have an Avalara account and need to :ref:`create <accounting/avalara_included/create> one and for
Odoo users with an existing Avalara account that they would like to :ref:`migrate <accounting/avalara_included/migrate>` to the *Avalara
Included* plan.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. _accounting/avalara_included/create

Create an Avalara Included account
----------------------------------

```

After the information has been entered, click :icon:`fa-plug` :guilabel:`Connect to Avalara
Included` to establish the connection between the Odoo database and the new Avalara account.

.. important::
   As part of the account creation, `Avalara's terms and conditions <https://legal.avalara.com/>`_
   must be accepted.

After accepting the terms and conditions, the Avalara account is created and an email is
automatically sent to the associated email address. Follow the instructions in the email to activate
the account by creating a password and registering in the Avalara Portal.

To complete the Avalara account setup, create a :ref:`company profile
<accounting/avatax/create-basic-company-profile>`.

.. _accounting/avalara_included/iap-credits:

In-App purchase credits
-----------------------

Avalara Included requires users to purchase credits on the `Odoo IAP page
<https://iap.odoo.com/iap/in-app-services/865>`_.

How do credits work?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One credit is consumed every time an invoice or credit note is posted with an *Avatax* fiscal
position. Select the package that best fits the demand, based on the estimated transactions.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Migrating to Avalara Included

> =============================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _accounting/avalara_included/migrate

Migrate to Avalara Included
===========================
```

================
Avalara Included
================

*Avalara Included* is an affordable in-app tax calculation service designed for small and
medium-sized businesses with essential tax compliance needs. Built on *Avalara's AvaTax* platform,
*Avalara Included* integrates with Odoo to provide real-time, region-specific tax calculations for
sales, purchases, and invoices.

Available for databases/companies with locations in the United States, Canada, and Brazil, *Avalara
Included* automatically calculates precise tax rates at the state, county, and city levels. The
service continuously accounts for changing tax laws, jurisdiction boundaries, and special
circumstances such as tax holidays and product exemptions to help improve remittance accuracy and
simplify tax compliance processes.

.. important::
   Some limitations exist in Odoo while using AvaTax for tax calculation:

   - AvaTax uses the company address by default. To use the warehouse address, enable :ref:`Allow

>      Ship Later <pos/shop/ship>` in the **POS** app settings.

Reviewer: Is this the only step in this configuration? One more line or even just an edit would make it a little more clear to me:

```suggestion
    - AvaTax uses the company address by default. To use the address of the specific warehouse that
      is listed in the :guilabel:`Warehouse` field on a sales order, enable :ref:`Allow Ship Later
      <pos/shop/ship>` in the **POS** app settings.
```

   - Excise tax is **not** supported. This includes tobacco/vape taxes, fuel taxes, and other
     specific industries.

.. seealso::
   Avalara's support documents: `About AvaTax
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US>`_

> Available integrations

Reviewer: This whole section is really important but it seems like it belongs on the parent page, not on this page that should be specifically about Avalara Included.

======================

> For the United States and Canada there are two alternatives for Avatax integration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For users in the United States and Canada, there are two options for Avatax integration:
```

+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| Account Managed by       |      Odoo IAP       |     Avalara Direct      |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| Odoo Technical Support   |          ✅         |            ✅           |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| Annual Transaction Limit |        5,000        |    Unlimited Custom     |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| 1st tier Support by      |         Odoo        |         Avalara         |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| Avalara Direct Support   |       Limited       |            ✅           |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| Return Prep & Filing     |    ⚠️ Add-on only   |      ⚠️ Add-on only     |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+
| Tax Remittance           |    ⚠️ Add-on only   |      ⚠️ Add-on only     |
+--------------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+

Configuration

> =============

Reviewer: Let's add an introductory line at the top of the configuration section saying something like:

> *Avalara Included* is available both for Odoo users who do not yet have an Avalara account and for Odoo users with an existing Avalara account that they would like to migrate to the *Avalara Included* plan.

Let's also add a "Create an Avalara Included account" section (with all the content that is currently on lines 66-102 (warning block to "complete the Avalara setup"). Then this short introduction can link to this "Create an Avalara Included account" section and the "Migrate to Avalara Included" account

> .. warning::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. important::
```

   The Avalara account activation **must** be done on the production database. If the account is
   created from a sandbox database that does not have an associated valid enterprise account, the
   following error message may appear:

   `Odoo was unable to register with the AvaTax proxy for My US Company INVALID_DBUUID - No valid
   enterprise contract!`

To activate and use the *Avalara Included* feature, begin by navigating to the
:menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings`. Once there, enable *AvaTax* by

> enabling the checkbox in the **Taxes** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To activate and use the *Avalara Included* feature, first navigate to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings`. Then, in the :guilabel:`Taxes` section, enable the :guilabel:`AvaTax` checkbox.
```

.. image:: avalara_included/avatax-enable.png
   :alt: The Avatax settings in Odoo's Accounting app.

> Next, select *Avalara Included* as the account type and enter a valid email address. This email

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, select :guilabel:`Avalara Included` as the account type and enter a valid email address. This email
```

address is used to link the company's information to the *Avalara Included* account.

After the information has been entered, click :icon:`fa-plug` :guilabel:`Connect to Avalara
Included` to establish the connection between the Odoo database and the new Avalara account.

.. important::
   As part of the account creation, `Avalara's terms and conditions <https://legal.avalara.com/>`_
   must be accepted.

After accepting the terms and conditions, the Avalara account is created and automatically an email
is sent to the associated email address in order  to activate your production account by creating a

> password and registering in the Avalara Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After accepting the terms and conditions, the Avalara account is created and an email
is automatically sent to the associated email address. Follow the instructions in the email to activate the account by creating a password and registering in the Avalara Portal.
```

Click :guilabel:`Create a password` to be redirected to the Avalara portal. Once the password is

> set, access is granted to the new Avalara account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I feel like the previous lines already explain this, but feel free to merge any aspects of this that you find important into the previous lines.

.. image:: avalara_included/create-account.png

>    :alt: The activation email sent from Avalara.

Reviewer: I think we should leave out this screenshot since we're unlikely to know if the format of Avalara's email changes, which would lead to more confused users than if there were no image at all

Complete the Avalara account setup by creating a :ref:`company profile

> <accounting/avatax/create-basic-company-profile>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To complete the Avalara account setup, create a :ref:`company profile
<accounting/avatax/create-basic-company-profile>`.
```
We've been trying to limit verb tenses ending in -ing (is that technically a gerund? my high school english teacher Mrs. Carmen would be very disappointed in me). Here's a way we can achieve that while still identifying the goal of the step at the beginning of the sentence like you had (we agree that it's nice to let users know what this step will do before they do it :) )

.. _accounting/avalara_included/iap-credits:

In-App purchase credits
-----------------------

Avalara Included requires users to purchase credits on the `Odoo IAP page
<https://iap.odoo.com/iap/in-app-services/865>`_.

How do credits work?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One credit is consumed every time an invoice or credit note is posted with an *Avatax* fiscal
position. Select the package that best fits the demand, based on the estimated transactions.

.. important::
   Businesses that exceed 5,000 transactions annually must transition to an *Avalara Direct* plan to

>    ensure uninterrupted service at higher transaction volumes.

Reviewer: Since none of this is about the configuration and it also applies to users who are migrating to Avalara Included, let's move this to just before the configuration section

Migrating to Avalara Included
=============================

Companies currently using *Avalara Direct* in production that have fewer than 5,000 annual

> transactions, including invoices and credit notes, are eligible for an alternative migration path to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transactions, including invoices and credit notes, are eligible to migrate their account plan to
```

*Avalara Included*.

.. important::
   Migrating from *Avalara Direct* to *Avalara Included* changes the Avalara account from a monthly
   contract model to an in-app purchase model, where transaction credits can be purchased based on
   volume. First-level support is also transferred to Odoo.

To begin, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration -- > Settings`. Scroll to the
**Taxes** heading. Under *Avatax*, in the :guilabel:`Integration Method`, ensure that

> :guilabel:`Avalara Direct` is selected. In the :guilabel:`Environment` field, select

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings`. In the :guilabel:`Taxes` section, under :guilabel:`Avatax` verify that the :guilabel:`Integration Method` is set to :guilabel:`Avalara Direct`. In the :guilabel:`Environment` field, select
```

:guilabel:`Production`. Confirm that the :guilabel:`API ID` and :guilabel:`API KEY` are correctly
configured. Click :icon:`fa-plug` :guilabel:`Migrate to Avalara Included`.

> After the button is clicked, a confirmation message appears outlining the changes to *Avalara*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the button is clicked, a confirmation message appears outlining the changes to Avalara
```

services and pricing before proceeding with the migration. The differences between each integration

> should be reviewed carefully in this documentation before confirming the migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
services and pricing before proceeding with the migration. Review the differences between each integration carefully before confirming the migration.
```

Once the migration is complete, a confirmation message appears indicating that the account was
successfully migrated to *Avalara Included*.

.. important::
   Because the migration process uses the same email address associated with the *Avalara Direct*
   account, access to the *Avalara* portal remains available with the existing email address. No
   additional email configuration is required in Odoo.

It is at this point that :ref:`IAP credits <accounting/avalara_included/iap-credits>` must be

> purchased to continue using the *AvaTax* engine.

Reviewer: I feel like this information is more important than the information regarding the email address because this explains something that must be done whereas the previous lines explain that the user doesn't have to do anything. Let's remove the important block above (but keep the information just as plain text), then let's put this IAP info in an important block.

*Avalara Included* integrates with Odoo to provide real-time, region-specific tax calculations for
sales, purchases, and invoices.

Available for databases/companies with locations in the United States, Canada, and Brazil, *Avalara
Included* automatically calculates precise tax rates at the state, county, and city levels. The
service continuously accounts for changing tax laws, jurisdiction boundaries, and special
circumstances such as tax holidays and product exemptions to help improve remittance accuracy and
simplify tax compliance processes.

.. important::
   Some limitations exist in Odoo while using AvaTax for tax calculation:

    - AvaTax uses the company address by default. To use the address of the specific warehouse that
      is listed in the :guilabel:`Warehouse` field on a sales order, enable :ref:`Allow Ship Later
      <pos/shop/ship>` in the **POS** app settings.
    - Excise tax is **not** supported. This includes tobacco/vape taxes, fuel taxes, and other
      specific industries.

.. seealso::
   Avalara's support documents: `About AvaTax
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US>`_

Available integrations
======================

> For users in the United States and Canada, there are two options for Avatax integration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For users in the United States and Canada, there are two options for AvaTax integration:
```

> - *Avalara Included*: An affordable In-App purchase service designed for SMBs with essential tax

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *Avalara Included*: An affordable in-app purchase service designed for SMBs with essential tax
```
not sure if this needs to be capitalized? optional suggestion, i'll leave it to your judgement, Jess!~

  calculation needs.

> - *Avalara Direct*: A robust solution for high volume or complex businesses, offering advanced

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *Avalara Direct*: A robust solution for high-volume or complex businesses, offering advanced
```

.. important::
   As part of the account creation, `Avalara's terms and conditions <https://legal.avalara.com/>`_
   must be accepted.

After accepting the terms and conditions, the Avalara account is created and an email is
automatically sent to the associated email address. Follow the instructions in the email to activate
the account by creating a password and registering in the Avalara Portal.

To complete the Avalara account setup, create a :ref:`company profile
<accounting/avatax/create-basic-company-profile>`.

.. _accounting/avalara_included/migrate:

Migrate to Avalara Included
---------------------------

Companies currently using *Avalara Direct* in production that have fewer than 5,000 annual
transactions, including invoices and credit notes, are eligible to migrate their account plan to
*Avalara Included*.

.. important::
   Migrating from *Avalara Direct* to *Avalara Included* changes the Avalara account from a monthly
   contract model to an in-app purchase model, where transaction credits can be purchased based on
   volume. First-level support is also transferred to Odoo.

To begin, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings`. In the

> :guilabel:`Taxes` section, under :guilabel:`Avatax` verify that the :guilabel:`Integration Method`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Taxes` section, under :guilabel:`Avatax`, verify that the :guilabel:`Integration Method`
```
